# Pascal-Triangle
This program generates Pascal's Triangle and prints it in an isosceles triangle form. It is implemented in Java.It is done in 3 ways : Using for loop , recursion and memoization.

## Program Description

Pascal's Triangle is a triangular array of numbers in which each number is the sum of the two numbers directly above it.

## How It Works
1.Pascal_Triangle_Loop : The program prompts the user to enter the number of rows for Pascal's Triangle. It then prints the triangle by iterating over each row and element.It is done by using nested for loop. The outer loop controls the number of rows. One of the inner for loop controls the initial space for the pascal triangle and the another for loop prints the element for the pascal triangle.

2.Pascal_Triangle_Recursion : The program prompts the user to enter the number of rows for Pascal's Triangle. It then prints the triangle by iterating over each row and element. The program utilizes a recursive function, `pascal(row, col)`, to calculate the value of each element. The pascal(row,col) returns 1 for the 1st and last element of every line. It returns the sum of two elements above current element.

3.Pascal_Triangle_Memoization : The program prompts the user to enter the number of rows for Pascal's Triangle. It then prints the triangle by iterating over each row and element. The program utilizes a recursive function, `pascal(row, col)`, to calculate the value of each element. The computed values are stored in a cache using memoization to avoid redundant calculations and improve performance.



## Contributions

Contributions to the program are welcome! 

Here are a few examples of Pascal's Triangle generated by the program:

